In the last lecture we have implemented the example for the diagram dispatching the comment posted event
and handling that in one single listener.
So instead of two we just created one.
Now let's see another example.
So let's have some more practice.
So we are dispatching this comment post that event when a comment is posted.
But now let's also imagine that you are an admin of a blog post platform and whenever someone creates
a blog post you would like to know about it.
For example to proofread this blog post or ban a user that is posting some spam.
So now we are inside the post controller store method which will also create our blog post and we can
create a new even for that so P2P artisan make even blog post boasted sorry.
This is enough.
Yeah.
I've read and made a spelling error and lava catch that created an event so that's great.
Now let's find this event and quickly implement that so blog post post that we do not need the broad
broadcasting and then it accepts our blog post from the blog post namespace.
Now this is only for storing data so we assign this to our field blog post and we are adding public
blog post field.
Okay so we have even created it imports the proper namespace.
So now inside the post controller after this is created we can dispatch an event so blog new blog post
post it as we know it accepts a blog post but we already probably have an import of that inside this
controller.
So that's the blog post so blog post.
Now we can handle some additional logic immediately after someone creates a blog post.
Let's make sure we are actually importing this.
Yes it is.
It's first thing we have here by the way.
Let's also remove this unused import.
That's a great feature of business to be a code.
Okay so now we have this blog post event dispatch.
Now let's create a list and so peach bee artisan make the list Amor notify admin when blog post create
it doesn't really matter how we called out but what we will do is we will notify the admin that the
blog post was created so let's go to this particular list and I right now notify admin when blog posts
create that it handles one event which is the blog post post that make sure you have this import here
and now let's go ahead and create an email so peach bee artisan make mail blog post added with a markdown
template emails posts blog post other so we'll make it simple because we just now want to see events
so it doesn't really matter what we send inside this particular mail class so you can see it is being
actually well it it definitely would need blog post but well let's ignore that for now only change the
template
like someone has posted a blog post.
Be sure to prove read it and that's it.
No components no nothing.
Just a plain email without anything.
OK so close this
close the eyes and that's our main label class and now we should first think of how we can get all the
users that are our means so we can also add Aquarius scope.
So I'm doing it pretty fast so we can see how easily now it is to add some logic and not even slow down
application our application because we'll move it all to background processing so we are using everything
that we have learned so far.
So let's click quickly create a new query scope for users scope that is admin.
So what we will do here is this will let us fetch all the users that are admins.
So now let's take a look at our user stable structure.
So we have the simple field e admin which can be true or false.
And whenever a user is sent out I mean this would be set as true.
So what we can do simply is query where these are the main true so this will return all the admins older
users that are admins.
Now what we do here is we will also use their frontal mail.
So well we have this limitation of mail drops so we are using that.
Now what we can do is user from the app user namespace.
So that's important user up user can see the changes.
Now you don't have to use the fully qualified namespace just user that is the mean
get this will return a collection of the users even if there is only one then we do map create closure
so user user like that and we can create our new product mail so brutal mail dispatch and let's remind
ourselves what is inside it.
So there is mail and a user so level is New Blog Post
added so we have all these names that we have to remember about.
But don't worry about that.
So this is an empty made up all we do not pass any data to.
We just want to see an email doesn't really matter what's inside it.
Okay.
So let's ignore that for now.
And we want to send that to the user.
So we are iterating over all the users that we have and this will be all throttled.
So this is our simple event handler.
So now we could use this event to see what is actually the blog post plus all those data to their blog
posts are that may level class well as to contain some information on what was actually posted to give
a link to some administration panel thinks like this but we are ignoring that for now we don't need
this constructor to.
So basically that's it.
Okay.
Now close all those classes and go back to the even service provider now quickly let's register this
even so blog post added.
No it's a blog post post it that's their even name class.
Now let's register this new listener.
So notify admin when blog posts create that class
and that's it.
Now let's save the genders and let's go back to the application so here we have your queue workers or
let's make sure we are restarting it.
Male sorry I ran the wrong command to create the male does this command.
OK so the queue worker is started.
Now let's are the blog post load does not matter.
Some content create.
OK.
It's being added and you can see that this job throttled male was dispatched it was processed so we
can tell that this event was properly dispatched the least dumber catch that event handled that by dispatching
this throttled male.
And now if we'll go to the male trap
to our demo inbox we can see blog post are that someone has posted a blog post.
Be sure to prove read it and well we we have combined everything that we've learned so we are sending
an email we throttle down through male trap limits so there are no more emails than to banks and every
twelve seconds and then we just have an event being dispatched after a particular blog post is bank
added and then we can add many things to it we can add some statistics you can call some AP eyes of
ours like tools if you use the tools a graph on our anything to display some dashboard some statistics
of your apps you can all handle that using events and then probably would be best to also utilize the
Q and background processing not to slow down your actual requests because their user facing code whatever
happens whenever a user click should be as fast as possible so it's great to use events for things like
that and then mixed out with Qs.